---
layout: post
mathjax: true
title: "Pangloss: Fast Entity Linking in Noisy Text Environments"
tags:
- NER
categories:
- Research
thumbnail_path: blog/personal/ner.jpeg
---

[Paper Link](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.06036.pdf)

### Overview

- Entity Linking is the task of mapping potentially ambiguous terms in text to their constituent entities in a KB like Wikipedia.
- Pangloss is entity disambiguation for noisy text.
- Combines a probabilistic linear-time key phrase identification algorithm with a semantic similarity engine based on context-dependent document embeddings.
- Entity Linking identifies a phrase (or surface form) in a text and links it to an entity in a KB.
- Challenges include *synonymy* (multiple ways to say a cup of coffee) and *polysemy* (Tesla means both man and machine).


### Architecture

{% include figure.html path="blog/personal/pangloss.png" alt="Panglosss Architecture" %}

**Datasets**

- Wikipedia, Wikipedia PageViews, LOD Wikilinks, Common Crawl and Workplace Chat.

**Surface Form Extraction**

- NER doesn't work for workplace chat (bad grammar and syntax).
- Apply segphrase - can also use probability of a phrase being a link in Wikipedia.

**Candidate Generation**

- Given a (surface form, text) pair, one approach is to do a multi-class classification on the entities. However, this doesn't work well in practice (need lot of data).
- Use anchor text from links as a way to reduce the number of candidates being considered.

**Joint Embedding**

- Create embeddings for surface form text and KB entities in the same space.
- Convert *power steering* to *power_steering* to compute embeddings for surface form text.
- For entity embeddings, insert a token (*uri:wiki/Wintermute*) following the anchor text linking to that article. 

**Disambiguation Features**

- Semantic Similarity - TF-IDF weighted embedding, use HDBSCAN for clustering similar entity forms.
- Anchor Text - Read More on this.
- Popularity - the number of inbound links, the total number of page views each entry receives, the number of pageviews via redirect pages, and the number of outbound links (total and unique). 
- Morphology - Levenshtein distance.

**LTR & Abstaining**

- (Surface Form, Passage, Entity) -> True/False
- Performance is improved by employing a pairwise preference algorithm that learns a model to determine which of two training examples should be ranked higher. Pairwise XGBoost with cross-validated hyperparameters for gamma, learning rate, number
of estimators, max depth, and minimum child weight yields the best relevance versus runtime performance.
- The abstain model can only improve precision.
- Abstain Model - given (surface form, text) can this be meaningfully linked?

